# hashquark Chain Information

Contents

* [Status](#status)
* [Chain Data](#chain-data)

## Status

* Timeline
  * 2022-11-10: Spawn time: `2022-12-01T12:00:00.000000Z`
  * 2022-11-09: Proposal 2 voting period ends
  * 2022-11-29: Proposal 2 goes into voting period
  * 2022-11-29: Chain initialized

Hashquark will launch as a consumer chain through a governance proposal in the `provider` chain. Read the [Consumer Chain Start Process](/docs/Consumer-Chain-Start-Process.md) page for more details about the workflow.

The following items will be included in the proposal:
* Genesis file hash
  * The SHA256 is used to verify against the genesis file that the proposer has made available for review.
  * This "fresh" genesis file cannot be used to run the chain: it must be updated with the CCV states after the spawn time is reached.
* Binary hash
* Spawn time
  * Even if the proposal passes, the CCV states will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

## Chain Data

### Binary

The binary published in this repo is the `hashquarkd` binary built using the `interchain-security` repo tag [v0.1.0](https://github.com/HashQuark-Research1/hashquark-ics-testnet/releases/tag/v0.1.0). You can generate the binary following the [build instructions](https://github.com/HashQuark-Research1/hashquark-ics-testnet).

  * [Linux amd64 build](hashquarkd)
  * SHA256: `00a157afbc63932f9488320814c435706b77ccc6d144a6505df3364319d5a03a`

### Genesis file

**The genesis file for Interchain Security consumer chains must include the CCV (Cross Chain Validation) state generated by the provider chain _after_ the spawn time is reached.**

The genesis file with was generated using the following settings:

* Chain ID: `hashquark`
* Denom: `uhash`
* Signed blocks window: `"8640"`
* Genesis file **without CCV state**: [`hashquark-fresh-genesis.json`](hashquark-fresh-genesis.json), SHA256: `f244826eed1267bc4b5c17193cb1413c29365ceb85a58c32a3522ba1555ba2dc`
  * **This is provided only for verification, this is not the genesis file validators should be running their nodes with.**

## Endpoints

* **p2p seeds : `c5f4b33d904adaeacc1ca05bfcd7376ca4d51519@tenderseed.ccvalidators.com:29029`**
* **p2p persistent peers : `4b5cee15e6a9c4b96b8c1c4f396a18b0461edc17@104.248.161.33:26656,835173badfc41ecbd867a0395c6a452bda2bb90f@178.62.105.39:26656`**
* These peers represent the `hashquark-coordinator` and `hashquark-backup` validators (run by the testnet coordinators). 
* The `hashquark-backup` validator node will be running on hashquark shortly after the genesis file that includes the CCV state (Cross Chain Validation state) has been published.
* Please keep in mind that any validator that does not come online after 67% of the voting power is up and running, is likely to be slashed for downtime, potentially resulting in being jailed (the `signed_blocks_window` parameter is set to `8640`).

## Join via Bash Script

On the node machine:
- Copy the `node_key.json` and `priv_validator_key.json` files for your validator.
  - **These should be the same ones as the ones from your provider node**.
- Run one of the following scripts:
  - hashquark service: [hashquark-init.sh](hashquark-init.sh)
  - Cosmovisor service: [hashquark-init-cv.sh](hashquark-init-cv.sh)
- Wait until the spawn time is reached and the genesis file with the CCV states is available.
- Overwrite the genesis file with the one that includes the CCV states.
  - The default location is `$HOME/.hashquark/config/genesis.json`.
- Enable and start the service:
  - hashquark
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable hashquark
    sudo systemctl start hashquark
    ```
  - Cosmovisor
    ```
    sudo systemctl enable cv-hashquark
    sudo systemctl start cv-hashquark
    ```
- To follow the log, use:
  - hashquark: `journalctl -fu hashquark`
  - Cosmovisor: `journalctl -fu cv-hashquark`
- If the log does not show up right away, run `systemctl restart systemd-journald`.
